# Table of Contents

- [borntofrappe](#borntofrappe)

- [React](#React)

## borntofrappe

Past updating the font-family for an anchor link, I figured I could actually restructure the project to have the 11ty code right at the root level, and save the building blocks in a properly named folder; something akin to "playground", "development", or again "building blocks". This is a matter of organization however, and I won't pollute the entry further by describing every possible choice.

Back to most relevant additions, I ended up creating two additional components, or sections, for lack of a better word:

- hero

- about

Both use JavaScript to create the markup, and this is ultimately done out of convenience. In these projects I end up creating SVG illustrations repeating the same elements over and over, and the scripts allow to cut down on the desired markup considerably.

A few things worth remembering:

- in the hero section I've nested several anchor link elements in an SVG element. To make these elements more accessible, I've specified a `<title>` and `<desc>` elements. As documented on MDN, these are not rendered, and can be used by assistive technology to better describe the container element (in this instance the wrapping `<a>`). Just be sure to add an `id` attribute to both element, and later reference the string(s) in the matching `aria-*` attributes.

  ```html
  <svg>
    <a aria-labelledby="title-twitter" aria-describedby="desc-twitter">
      <title id="title-twitter">twitter</title>
      <desc id="desc-twitter">Follow me @borntofrappe</desc>
    </a>
  </svg>
  ```

  The anchor link elements actually include a `<text>` element as well, and this could be used, referenced as a label. Something to consider.

- in the about section the illustration describing a planet uses the intersection observer API to animate the SVG only when the section is in sight. This explains the liberal, nay excessive margin introduced at the top of the wrapping container: have the SVG fall outside of the scope of the viewport, and the animation stops

- in both sections I included on an object describing the necessary icons in key-value pairs. I've also relied on a `getIcon` function, which helps in two ways:

  1. provide a fallback if the input icon is not available in the `icons` object

  2. update the presentational attributes for the width and height of the SVG icon. This is helpful in the moment the icons are nested in larger SVG elements.

  I haven't figured out yet how to replicate the feat with 11ty. Perhaps this is an instance in which a filter might help; the idea would be to inject the icon as follows:

  ```njk
  {{ icons.codepen }}
  ```

  And apply a filter

  ```njk
  {{ icons.codepen | fallback }}
  ```

  Honestly, I don't know if filter can even accept arguments, and therefore I need to research the docs to find out more on how to implement both points.

## React

I'm deep into HTML, CSS and vanilla JavaScript, but I'm still invested in libraries like react. With this in mind,
I've started reviewing the conference [Women of React 2020](https://youtu.be/K8MF3aDg-bM). It's not all about the specific library, and there's plenty which I can already learn from the different talks; consider for instance accessibility and design systems.
