# Table of Contents

- [Small notice](#Small-notice)

- [borntofrappe/1](#borntofrappe/1)

  - [Blog](#Blog)

  - [className and SVG elements](#className-and-SVG-elements)

  - [Tips](#Tips)

- [borntofrappe.github.io](#borntofrappe.github.io)

- [borntofrappe/2](#borntofrappe/2)

  - [Landing page](#Landing-page)

## Small notice

I did create an entry for the second of May (also known as yesterday), but failed to annotate much of the code I created. This entry might therefore be a bit beefier, as it includes twice the content.

## borntofrappe/1

As I now see it, the website is close to being shipped. I've decided to scale back my efforts, scratch the idea of adding articles introducing different routes with dedicated copy and SVG illustration and focus on content instead. At the end of the day, content is what actually matters.

### Blog

I already have an article on the CSS property `css-animation-paused`, and all that is required to complete that narration is a series of demos on codepen. Here I want to spend a word or two on a second article, this time on what I learned regarding SVG elements and the `className` API.

### className and SVG elements

> The many ways you can set a class on SVG elements using JavaScript

Alternative title: "classes and SVG elements". This label fits better with the paragraph, the subtitle introducing the article, while "className and SVG elements" highlights what prompted the research and the article in the first place, namely the fact that the following doesn't work as one would expect.

```js
document.querySelector("svg").className = "bounce";
```

As the skeleton of the blog post is concerned, focus on highlighting the problem first, and then promptly giving the solution — or in this instance the solutions. Only later, describe why the problem arises, or what prompted the problem at all.

Consider adding a demo on Codepen as well. This demo could showcase a basic SVG element, say describing only a circle element, and a class which scales the element to twice its size. Following the element, provide a series of buttons with the following text:

- className

- classList.add

- setAttribute

- className.baseVal

Clicking on the button could toggle the class, and the text of the button could be updated to explain the matching action. `className` alone doesn't work, so you might need a way to describe that occurrence. Perhaps include a line or two to describe why that is.

### Tips

The discussion regarding the demo leads me to an entertaining alternative. I've toyed with the idea of providing a static image, a `.png` which surmises the article in its most salient features. In this instance, you could create an image describing the three ways you can add a class on SVG elements outside of `className`. With this in mind, it seems only natural to have the static image and the demo rely on one another. Let me argue this point better with a bulleted list:

- provide a static image

- in the static image, include a link to a demo

- in the demo recreate the static image, but make it interactive

In both instances, rely on the style guide set up for the website: same fonts, same colors, same icons.

It might be feasible only with simple tips, as demos have more space and can be more granular, but do try to reconcile the two.

## borntofrappe.github.io

I felt like I needed a small victory, so I started with step 1 of my new profile on the web: a complete overhaul of **borntofrappe-github.io**. Hosted on Github Pages, this repository described my online presence with a few sections, and most prominently a section dedicated to different codepens of which I was particularly proud. With **borntofrappe** taking this role, I decided to repurpose the repo to be a hub, a place redirecting visitors toward platforms and websites on which I spend most of my time. You have your codepen, your twitter, but also freecodecamp and hopefully soon, the borntofrappe website to begin with.

In a later version, I might add new features to the website, and create something similar to a timeline showcasing the milestones and most salient points of my coding career. In its current state however, I am more than happy to leave it as a general introduction, a business card for all things borntofrappe.

Going back to the need for a small victory, I found the overhaul a great starting point to see the components created for the larger website in action. The illustration making up the navigation, the pattern, the meta tags. All of these are live, and immediately experience-able on any browser/device I own. I can see the code in use and adjust accordingly. I can see the meta tags reference the appropriate images and assets. Most helpfully, I can actually see the code I developed with the Svelte compiler put to some good use. Animation and all.

I struggled a moment with the structure of the repository, but eventually realized that Github Pages deploys the `index.html` page found at the root level. With this in mind, I re-organized the project as follows:

```
- index.html
- css
      - global.css
      - bundle.css
      - ....css
- js
      - bundle.js
      -....js
- static
```

The `bundle` files are obtained by running `npm run build`. The command creates the files in a **public** folder, and I simply copy-pasted their presence in the desired folder.

## borntofrappe/2

Before shipping the website, I decided to finalize the design of the pages in the folder bearing the same name.

### Landing page

I mentioned the landing page is missing a few important sections, describing the routes of the website. However, as mentioned above, I rescheduled this update for later date.

In the place of these sections, a single container with the following copy will suffice:

> Getting started
>
> This website is in its infancy, but the hope is that you'll find something of value still.
>
> If you haven't checked it already, might I suggest you visit the blog?
>
> Explore articles

Perhaps it's a tad verbose, but the idea is to stress how I'm just getting started.

The copy is paired with an illustration, showing a telescope and a series of stars or constellations. For the constellations, I'd like to include the icons of the following technologies:

- html

- css

- js

- svg

Symbolizing core web technologies, but also where I started my development journey.

It would be neat to have the vector graphics and the copy included as in the following grid:

```
.           stars
telescope   heading
copy        copy
link        .
```

The size of the telescope is not excessive, but as the viewport gets thinner and thinner, consider a one-column layout.

```
stars
telescope
heading
copy
link
```

A one-column layout where the stars are right-aligned, as opposed to the telescope. Almost as if the tool were to point to the constellations.

Use a custom design for the anchor link, with icon of the rocket laid on its side, and translated on hover/focus.
