# Table of Contents

- [borntofrappe](#borntofrappe)

  - [Link](#Link)

  - [Sections](#Sections)

  - [Landing Page](#Landing-Page)

- [Deadline + 1](#Deadline-+-1)

## borntofrappe

Starting off with the link component for borntofrappe, and leading up to the introductory section and landing page, I finally put some solid work in the website. Unfortunately, I won't be able to deploy it immediately, but I made a step in the right direction.

### Link

I wasn't too keen on having `rocket.svg` nested in the `<a>` anchor link element, and tried to recreate the visual with pseudo elements. Pseudo elements, a background of a solid color and a mask using the SVG syntax of the rocket.

Browser support for mask-image seems robust enough, but I decided to use a media query just to be safe. This is one instance in which the mask prompts additional properties (padding, mask), and in a moment in which the property fails, the design leaves a lot to be desired.

```css
a::after {
  /* fallback */
}
@supports (mask-image: url()) or (-webkit-mask-image: url()) {
  a::after {
    /* rocket */
  }
}
```

I spent a considerable amount of time on the actual mask, and thanks mainly to Microsoft Edge, but eventually I did recreate the desired layout without nesting the SVG element in the anchor link element.

### Sections

Immediately, I updated the about section to animate the illustration only when this illustration is visible in the viewport. I basically changed the target of the intersection observer API, to reconcile the script with the one developed for the landing page.

For the introductory section, I designed a small SVG illustration using a telescope and four important icons: html, css, js, svg. The idea is to stress how these represent the starting point, of the website, but also my coding career.

### Landing Page

In the moment I recreated the sections in the landing page, I fell in the trap of copy-pasting the code, and most prominently the stylesheet, without much care. It is essential to take a step back and figure out:

1. layout. Each section has different requirements, but there are bound to be similarities as well

1. semantic markup. The `section` element is currently overused, and I need a better way to structure the content.

## Deadline + 1

With the deadline come and gone, I will start counting the days until I finally push the code to the repo and deploy the public/dist/build folder using netlify.

I've started reviewing [this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mT5siI19gtc) to get acquainted with netlify, but I believe this is one of those tools you just need to try on your own.
