# Table of Contents

- [Style Guide](#Style-Guide)

- [Introduction](#Introduction)

- [Pages](#Pages)

## Style Guide

I've reviewed the style to include an additional folder: **Illustrations**. This is dedicated to vector graphics more complex than just icons, which are mostly featured in the landing page.

In this review process, I've refactored a couple of demos as well, and I found a couple of quirks/bugs worth a mention.

- a typo in the stylesheet for the demo showcasing the icons

  ```diff
  -display: block:
  +display: block;
  ```

- confusion in the demo highlighting the patterns.

  This is mostly a semantic issue, but here it goes: the wave-like pattern was first designed for the footer. With this in mind, the pattern goes at the top of the connected element _by default_.

  In the demo, I flipped the pattern to include it at the bottom

  ```css
  div.wave::after {
    transform: scaleY(-1);
  }
  ```

  And then used a class of `.above` to restore its appearance at the top.

  ```css
  div.wave.above::after {
    transform: initial;
  }
  ```

  It makes much more sense to flip the graphic only if needed, and therefore I remove the `.above` class in favour of `.below`.

  ```css
  div.wave.below::after {
    transform: scaleY(-1);
  }
  ```

  In this manner it is no longer necessary to use `transform: initial;`. (eventually I did include a transform property, but for other pixel-related issues).

- colors in the console

  In the utility script for the icons folder I've added a couple of console messages to highlight what the script actually does/has done. I've also used color the stress its output:

  - yellow text to warn against duplicate icons

  - green text to highlight the files created by the script

  The color is added through a rather cryptic syntax, `\x1b[32` and `\x1b[33m` respectively, and reset with a likewise convoluted series of characters, `\x1b[0m`. These refer to escape codes to color the terminal, and work fine for such a small script; however, consider using a more robust solution with a node package like [colors.js](https://www.npmjs.com/package/colors).

## Introduction

I've redesigned the section in terms of layout and animation. For the layout, I've decided to rely on the `float` and the `shape-outside` properties. The illustration has enough whitespace to have the content which follows safely nested in the bottom right area. Unfortunately, the property is not supported everywhere, and I tried my best to provide a fallback. The text follows the SVG element naturally, but this one has a negative margin so to occupy less space.

In terms of animation, I decided to animate the color, scale and rotation of several elements in the illustration:

- the telescope and its hinge

- the circles and the icons

It is quite a tentative animation, but coupled with the floating, if floating, content, it provides a nice visual.

## Pages

I managed to sketch the pages of the website, and most importantly their layout, with pen(cil) and paper. Immediately, I realized the project needs more than three pages, but those are the most important ones and take absolute priority:

- landing page

- blog, showcasing a grid of articles

- blog post, mapping the markdown files in a `<main>` element

With the next update, I plan to tackle each one of these pages. I might review the rest of the repo, starting with the components folder, but that will follow on a need-to-have basis. In other words, any component which needs to be recreated in the pages is reviewed and its markup/stylesheet re-considered.

For future reference, the additional pages are:

- 404

- shorts

This last one could actually replace the idea I had a while back regarding tips. Moreover, it plays nicely with the spirit of the website (artsy, yet playful) and a particular last name.
