# Table of Contents

- [learning-d3](#learning-d3)

- [gabriele-saves](#gabriele-saves)

  - [matchAll](#matchAll)

  - [exec](#exec)

  - [test](#test)

  - [Minor update](#Minor-update)

- [borntofrappe](#borntofrappe)

  - [Getting Started](#Getting-Started)

    - [Files](#Files)

    - [Command Line](#Command-Line)

- [borntofrappe.github.io](#borntofrappe.github.io)

## learning-d3

In the repository I created a demo to explore the `d3-scale-chromatic` module. The visualizations are simplistic to say the least, but I got to practice with several core concepts of the D3 library as well. Here's a thought for a cheat sheet of sorts: catalog the different scales, and describe the domain and range required by each one (continuous, discrete). It'll certainly help future data viz(s).

## gabriele-saves

This very folder is home to the verbose notes I create while I write software. I thought of using a single README file, but that option proved unsustainable from the get-go. As I ended up creating a separate markdown file for each specific day, I figured the project could use from a table of contents. Enters `script.js`. The goal of this script is straightforward: read every markdown file that is not `README.md`, create a table of contents on the basis of the headings and prepend the structure at the top of the file.

Exploring regular expressions, I ended up using the following construct: `/(#{2,6}) (.+)/g`, and one of two methods.

### matchAll

[The method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String/matchAll) allows for a rather concise syntax.

```js
const regExp = /(#{2,6}) (.+)/g;
const matches = content.matchAll(regExp);
```

It returns an array of arrays, each describing:

- the match of the entire regular expression

- the captured groups

- the index in the input string

- the input string itself

Considering the two captured groups, the first one provides the number of spaces with which to indent the line, and the title of the heading itself.

```js
const tableOfContents = [...matches].map(([, spaces, title]) => [spaces, title]);
```

Here I destructured the necessary information in a separate array, but I might end up immediately building the desired string without the additional step.

One thing worth noting: `[...matches]`. It is necessary to spread the `matches` variable as `matchAll` returns an object iterable.

### exec

While browser support means close to nothing for the fledging script, I thought it interesting to take the extra step and figure out how to find the matches without `matchAll`. This is achieved with [the `.exec` method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp/exec) and a `while` loop.

The idea is to store in a variable the result of the `.exec` call.

```js
const regExp = /(#{2,6}) (.+)/g;
let match;

match = regExp.exec(content);
```

`exec` returns `null` if it doesn't find a match, so you can set up a loop to consider all possible matches.

```js
while ((match = regExp.exec(content)) !== null) {}
```

The individual match returns a structure similar to the one highlighted in the `matchAll` section, so I set up an array in which to store the desired values.

```js
const matches = [];

while ((match = regExp.exec(content)) !== null) {
  const [, spaces, title] = match;
  matches.push([spaces, title]);
}
```

And I then have access to a similar structure to the one provided by `matchAll`. Two differences to be aware of:

- the array provides just the desired information. Building the string, you no longer need to skip the first value

  ```diff
  - [, spaces, title]
  + [spaces, title]
  ```

- `matches` is already an array, and there's no need to spread its content into a separate structure

  ```diff
  - [...matches].map
  + matches.map
  ```

### test

Just to be safe and avoid creating multiple indexes, I added a conditional around the previous logic.

```js
if (!/#Index/.test(content)) {
  // write index
}
```

### Minor update

Instead of just skipping the index if there is already one, I decided to overwrite the existing index with a new one. As discussed in a previous section, the value returned by the `.exec` function provides the position of the match in the input string.

```js
while ((match = regExp.exec(content)) !== null) {
  const [, spaces, title] = match;
  const { index } = match;
  matches.push([spaces, title, index]);
}
```

Instead of including the content as-is, proceed to then slice the existing markdown from the index specified by the first match.

```diff
- fs.writeFileSync(note, `# Index\n\n${tableOfContents}\n\n${content}`);
+ fs.writeFileSync(note, `# Index\n\n${tableOfContents}\n\n${content.slice(matches[0][2])}`);
```

## borntofrappe

I've been occupied building this website with Svelte and Sapper. I've learnt a lot about both technologies, but ultimately decided to nuke the existing structure to use Eleventy instead.

There are a few driving factors, but the most prominent one is that the website is, and will remain for a considerable time, a blog. To this end, I really don't need much beyond markdown and the ability to parse said markdown to HTML. 11ty is a prime candidate to solve this issue.

### Getting Started

From the [11ty.dev](https://www.11ty.dev/) webpage, I followed the [getting started](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/getting-started/) guide to set up the skeleton of the website.

I actually installed eleventy globally as well, but the docs assume _local project installation_.

```bash
npm init -y
npm install --save-dev @11ty/eleventy
```

This sets up a `package.json` and a `node_modules` folder with the necessary node modules. Be sure to add a `.gitignore` to avoid tracking the folder with git.

```.gitignore
# ignore folder
node_modules
```

Once installed `npx @11ty/eleventy` and `npx @11ty/eleventy --serve` process the necessary files to create a `_site` folder. The latter of the two commands also sets up a page on `localhost/8080` where the site is live and ready for viewing.

#### Files

Eleventy directly processes markup and markdown files. I've created one of each to test the output of the previous two bash commands.

Markup: `index.html`

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <title>borntofrappe</title>
  </head>
  <body>
    <nav>
      <a href="/">borntofrappe</a>
    </nav>

    <header>
      <h1>Hello there</h1>
      <p>Welcome to my own website</p>
    </header>
  </body>
</html>
```

Markdown: `up-and-running.md`

```md
# Up and Running

I woke up and decided to repurpose three repositories from my Github profile.
```

On `localhost/8080`, 11ty serves the document with the `<nav>` and `<header>` elements. On `localhost/8080/up-and-running`, 11ty shows instead the contents of the markdown file with a `<h1>` and `<p>` element.

#### Command Line

This is something to keep in mind: the command introduced in the previous section:

```bash
npx @11ty/eleventy
```

Can specify a particular input and output folder.

```bash
npx @11ty/eleventy --input=. --output=_site
```

Refer [to the docs](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/usage/) for other helpful options, like `--formats`

## borntofrappe.github.io

The last update I made to this website removed a banner I had included at the top of the page, announcing a big rewrite. I plan to shift my focus to the 11ty powered website, but I have a thought or two for this page as well. Ultimately, I'd like to use it as a hub, a place where I introduce myself or where I spent most of my waking hours (codepen, github, twitter). I'd be neat to also show a timeline, a map of sorts, charting my progress as a developer.
