# Table of Contents

- [Decisions](#Decisions)

- [learning-d3](#learning-d3)

- [borntofrappe](#borntofrappe)

## Decisions

I switched to `Recursive Mono` as a font, but that lasted very little time, and I decided to switch back to Fira Code. I feel like the typeface breathes more and it's above all more legible. That is the first requirement of a good font for a code editor. At least for me.

I reviewed [this screencast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oMuWgki-vKQ) describing how data visualizations can be created and described in Observable. I might pick up the tool as I continue with the repository **learning-d3**.

## learning-d3

I wanted to practice creating a pie chart, using `pie` and `arc` functions. Eventually, the project became more involved, and I decided to rename the folder to **Data Practice**. I got a lot of practice not only with D3, but JavaScript as well. The former to map data to HTML _and_ SVG elements. The latter to massage the data as needed.

The project was also a good excuse to practice creating and styling a table. The highlight, however, came in the form of the arc function used to generate the semitransparent fill on the inner portion of each slice. Not only this gives the visualization a faux-3d visual, but it taught me how modifying the arc function does so permanently. I would have thought the change would apply only as the arc function is used:

```js
.attr('d', d => arc.innerRadius()(d))
```

But as mentioned, the change persists. This is why I specified both the inner and outer radius every time I ended up using the function.

## borntofrappe

Continuing with the migration from the playground repository, I've included a couple more components in the folder bearing the same name.

It the next update, I will want to either add the design of the pages, or finally create the script to produce the necessary markup. With this regard, the [11ty docs](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/) and the structure provided [right here](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-base-blog/blob/master) for a starter blog will prove to be invaluable.
