# Table of Contents

- [Notice](#Notice)

- [borntofrappe](#borntofrappe)

  - [Project structure](#Project-structure)

  - [Breadcrumbs](#Breadcrumbs)

  - [Skip to Content](#Skip-to-Content)

  - [Header](#Header)

  - [Icons](#Icons)

## Notice

I made the decision of stopping th 100daysofcode challenge, and taking a break of at least 48 hours from twitter. I've also made the conscious effort not to share this decision, as I felt this would have depreciated the decision a lot. I still intend to code, and journal what I learn in this repo, but I felt this hard stop was much needed in a moment in which I feel a bit of a slump, and need time/the right mindset to plot my future steps as a fledging web developer.

## borntofrappe

This is **the** site that's going to receive most of my time and energy in the foreseeable future.

I've created a `README.md` file in the root of the repository, and moved the impromptu website in the `src` folder. From this starting point, I decided to develop the website in increments.

### Project structure

As mentioned, the `src` folder is where the static site generator will develop the eventual website. This will be 11ty, or Sapper if I were to decide to switch back to using Svelte.

At the root level, the README file sits next to different folders describing the HTML and CSS for the website. The code for the landing page, for the page listing the blog, for each blog post. Starting from this basis the templating language should have a much easier time at setting up the desired interface.

### Breadcrumbs

At the top of every page, I intend to add breadcrumb animation. This one displays every route leading up to the current URL.

I tried to differentiate the style for the hover and focus state:

- on hover update the color

- on focus update the background and show a dashed border

The is inspired by the implementation in [this particular website](https://ethanmarcotte.com/).

### Skip to Content

The cited website has also a nice feature in the form of an anchor link element available for screen users only.

```html
<a class="sr-only" href="#content">Skip to content</a>
```

It allows to literally skip the navigation and other elements preceding the core of the web page, so that users tabbing through the interface can jump to the most pertinent section more rapidly. Interestingly enough, as the anchor link element receives the `:focus` state, it is boldly displayed above every other element.

Here's a list of helpful links on the subject:

- [Inclusively hidden](https://www.scottohara.me/blog/2017/04/14/inclusively-hidden.html)

- [Hiding things with CSS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pLokyKj10Gw&feature=emb_title)

### Header

This component introduces the different blog posts, by title and tags. I've included the same `.screen-reader-only` class created for the previous component, as to provide a heading and label for the different tags. These are shown only visually, and through SVG elements, but should be described by assistive technology. The logic should work, but actual testing is required (and more research on hiding/ showing elements to assistive tech).

Without tags, show the heading describing the title only.

### Icons

I've started collecting the SVG icons as I use them in the components folder. I've also adjusted the attributes to follow a similar format (fill, then stroke, then stroke properties) and default size (width and height with a value of `40`). With regards to this last value, consider a way to alter the presentational attributes; this is convenient in the moment the icon is either too big (see navigation) or not big enough (see header).
