# Table of Contents

- [Design Guide](#Design-Guide)

- [Snippets](#Snippets)

- [Scripts](#Scripts)

## Design Guide

I reviewed the choices I made with regards to the design guide behind borntofrappe. These are mostly minor tweaks, but here it goes.

- change accent color to **primary**. I've developed enough demos and components to realize that the purple hue is the primary hue.

- change primary to **secondary**. I thought of removing the blue-ish palette altogether, but the scale complements rather nicely the purple counterpart. Especially considering the grid of articles, where only the first post uses the purple variant, the blue choice complements the interface.

- change the font used for the body with a typeface using more variants. Hind madurai doesn't have an italic version and I didn't realize this sooner. For the heading and header, I evaluated [Volkorn](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Vollkorn?preview.text=borntofrappe&preview.text_type=custom), but I quite like [Maven Pro](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Maven+Pro?preview.text=CSS+Animation+Paused&preview.text_type=custom&query=maven+pro) still. Tinkering with a couple of fonts, I settled on the following choices:

  - Maven Pro, sans-serif for header, headings, navigation and footer

  - Crimson Pro, serif for body

  - Fira Code, monospace for code snippets

On second thought, Fira Code is up to debate as well. The style of the code included in the body, outside of code fences, is certainly in need of an upgrade.

Finally, use `Source Code Pro` instead.

## Snippets

A couple of snippets following the previous section and the decisions made so far

Import fonts, either in HTML or CSS

```html
<link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Crimson+Pro:ital,wght@0,400;0,700;1,400;1,700&family=Maven+Pro:wght@500;600;700&family=Source+Code+Pro&display=swap" rel="stylesheet" />
```

```css
@import url("https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Crimson+Pro:ital,wght@0,400;0,700;1,400;1,700&family=Maven+Pro:wght@500;600;700&family=Source+Code+Pro&display=swap");
```

Use fonts, in the global or dedicated stylesheet

```css
body {
  font-family: "Crimson Pro", serif;
}
h1 {
  font-family: "Maven Pro", sans-serif;
}
code {
  font-family: "Source Code Pro", monospace;
}
```

## Scripts

In the process of re-creating the design guide, I actually managed to create a couple of useful scripts.

The majority of these scripts is responsible for a particular markup structure. JavaScript is used out of convenience, to avoid repeating oneself too frequently in the `index.html` file which references them.

The script if the **Icons** folder instead, is responsible for creating a markup file from scratch. This one uses node to literally read from the current folder, find the files with the `.svg` extension and then create an object describing the icons in key value pairs. This object is then used to create two files:

- `index.html`, showing the icons visually, through `<article>` and `<svg>` elements

- `icons.js`, replicating the object structure in a JavaScript file.

Ultimately, and using 11ty, the object is exported with the `module.exports` syntax from the `_data` folder. This will make it possible to use the icons anywhere in the website, by referencing the desired icon.

```njk
{{ icons.rocket }}
```
