# Table of Contents

- [11ty](#11ty)

  - [Data driven templates](#Data-driven-templates)

  - [Markup and markdown](#Markup-and-markdown)

  - [Filter](#Filter)

  - [Collections](#Collections)

  - [Layout](#Layout)

  - [Data](#Data)

  - [Permalink](#Permalink)

  - [Pagination](#Pagination)

- [gabriele-saves](#gabriele-saves)

  - [Global flag](#Global-flag)

## 11ty

Researching the utility for **borntofrappe**, I digested a few resources from the eleventy's own creator [Zach Leatherman](https://www.zachleat.com/web/).

### Data driven templates

[In this article](https://www.zachleat.com/web/eleventy-tutorial-level-1/), Zach introduces front matter and how you can inject data from the front matter in markup files.

[Front matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) as in anything wrapped in between two lines consisting of triple dashes

```html
---
<!-- anything goes -->
---
```

Data specified in key-value pairs

```html
---
title: Up and Running
---
```

Data injected using the default template engine [liquid](https://github.com/Shopify/liquid), in between two sets of curly braces

```html
---
title: Hello there
---

<h1>{{ title }}</h1>
<p>The title of this page is <strong>{{ title }}</strong></p>
```

Perhaps it has more to do with liquid, but the post highlights how to loop through a list of data as well.

```html
---
title: Hello there
shopping:
  - apples
  - oranges
  - grapes
---

<h1>{{ title }}</h1>
<p>The title of this page is <strong>{{ title }}</strong></p>
<ul>
  {% for item in list %}
  <li>{{item}}</li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>
```

### Markup and markdown

Front matter works with markdown as well.

```md
---
title: Hello there
shopping:
  - apples
  - oranges
  - grapes
---

# {{ title }}

The title of this page is **{{ title }}**</p>

{% for item in list %} - {{item}}
{% endfor %}
```

`{%-` and `-%}` allow to remove the whitespace before and after the liquid tags (by default this is not removed)

### Filter

The [second post from Zach](https://www.zachleat.com/web/eleventy-tutorial-level-2/) describes how to set up a filter. The implications of this technique are quite relevant for my project, but I feel it goes beyond what I need in these early stages.

The post goes through setting up a filter to weight static assets, but to test things out, I create a filter which modifies the list to show letters in upper or lower case. It is trivial (you), but it showcases filters nonetheless.

Apply the filter

```html
{{item | crazycase}}
```

Create a config file `.eleventy.js`, which exports a function.

```js
module.exports = function (eleventyConfig) {
  // filter here
};
```

Add the filter on the `eleventyConfig` object

```js
eleventyConfig.addFilter("crazycase", function (text) {
  //
});
```

`addFilter` describes a function which receives as input the text previously described in between the curly braces. Whatever is returned by it will be included in the place of `{{ item }}`

```js
eleventyConfig.addFilter("crazycase", function (text) {
  return text
    .split("")
    .map((letter) => (Math.random() > 0.5 ? letter.toUpperCase() : letter.toLowerCase()))
    .join("");
});
```

Again, a trivial example, but that satisfies what I currently want to know about filters. Think of them as data driven utilities, if you will.

The post mentions a third article on layouts, but at least at the time of writing, there's no installment following the second article. A video and the official docs help to fill the gap.

- [Let’s Learn Eleventy! - Learn with Jason](https://www.learnwithjason.dev/let-s-learn-eleventy)

- [Get started with Eleventy - NebraskaJS](https://youtu.be/DC5fP_8Q8uQ)

### Collections

I've actually dabbled in creating a collection when contributing to [educationlinks.fyi](https://github.com/hankchizljaw/educationlinks.fyi/tree/master/src), to set up an RSS feed, but they are so useful to warrant the repetition.

When in the front matter you add a `tags` variable

```html
---
title: Up and Running
tags: blog
---
```

```html
---
title: CSS Animation Paused
tags: blog
---
```

eleventy creates a collection you can freely use in the markup/markdown files

```html
<p>A list of blog posts</p>

<ul>
  {% for post in collections.blog %}
  <li>
    <a href="{{post.url}}">{{post.data.title}}</a>
  </li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>
```

eleventy provides a `.url` property which conveniently describes the path for the specific file.

### Layout

In the `_includes` folder add a file describing a template.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
  </head>
  <title>{{ title }}</title>
  <body>
    <nav>
      <a href="/">borntofrappe</a>
    </nav>

    <h1>{{ title | crazycase }}</h1>
    {{ content }}
  </body>
</html>
```

In the video they use [nunjucks](https://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks), but liquid does seem to offer a similar structure, so I'll stick with the shopify version.

Once created, it can be used by any file by referencing the path in the front matter

```html
---
title: Up and Running
tags: blog
layout: layout.liquid
---
```

And the content will be injected in place of `{{content}}`. Notice that in the layout file I've added the title in crazy case, as well as a navigation element. These are conveniently included before the content of each file using the layout.

### Data

There are a plethora of ways with which you can add data to `md` or `html` files.

- directly in the front matter, as done up until now.

  ```html
  ---
  layout: layout.liquid
  ---
  ```

- in a `.json` file

  ```json
  {
    "layout": "layout.liquid"
  }
  ```

  Every file in the same folder can then use the layout variable without need to specify the value in the front matter.

  ```diff
  ---
  title: Up and Running
  - layout: layout.liquid
  ---
  ```

  Pay attention to the JSON file's name, which apparently needs to match the name of the folder.

- within a `_data` folder, added at the root level like `_includes` earlier.

  ```js
  module.exports = {
    rocket: `<svg></svg>`,
    blog: `<svg></svg>`,
  };
  ```

  Once again, the name fo the file matters. Here I labeled the file `icons.js`, and I'm free to reference the icons anywhere in the site using `{{ icons["rocket"] }}`

Giving a read [to the docs](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/data-cascade/) might be a good idea.

### Permalink

In the front matter, decouple the name/address of the file from the URL produced by eleventy

```html
---
title: CSS Animation Paused
tags: blog
permalink: css-animation/
---
```

Notice the logs

```bash
Writing _site/blog/css-animation/index.html from ./blog/css-animation-paused.md.
```

The page will be created in a folder with the new name.

### Pagination

This is actually beyond what I currently need for my website, and I'll leave a bookmark for later viewing. Start from [roughly minute 59](https://youtu.be/j8mJrhhdHWc?t=3519)

## gabriele-saves

I created a **saves** folder in which to store the different markdown files, and adjusted the script accordingly. Using `node script` now creates a table of contents for the `.md` files in the specific folder. I might actually change the name of the script to something more descriptive, so that `${name}.js` already describes the purpose of the file.

```bash
node prepend-toc
```

Perhaps overly descriptive, but quite faithful as to what it actually does. I've also changed the `h1` element to describe "Table of Contents" instead of "Index". Minor change, but in line with previous updates.

### Global flag

Creating the index for today's notes I've noticed a bug in creating the table of contents. It seems `string.replace(' ', '-')` replaces only the first instance of an empty space. I ended up using a regular expression to highlight how every white space needs to be updated to a dash character.

```diff
- string.replace(' ', '-')
+ string.replace(/ /g, '-')
```
