# Table of Contents

- [Build your own](#Build-your-own)

  - [hsl](#hsl)

  - [Angle](#Angle)

  - [dataset](#dataset)

  - [Forces](#Forces)

## Build your own

Building on top of yesterday's visualization, I decided to recreate [this demo](https://observablehq.com/@d3/build-your-own-graph?collection=@d3/d3-force) to practice not only with a simulation, but a dynamic one.

It's actually interesting to note how the project started from the demo, but actually developed its own structure. It's about adding circles following a click event, but it's also about colors, using the `hsl()` color format. [Here's a live demo](https://codepen.io/borntofrappe/pen/dyYOBzV) for reference.

### hsl

The format specifies the hue, saturation and lightness. Conveniently enough, the hue is a value in the `[0, 360]` interval, which makes the value a prime candidate to map the angle created by the cursor as it moves around the center of the SVG element.

### Angle

Pardon my ignorance regarding trigonometry, but the angle is computed on the basis of the length of the adjacent and opposite side of the triangle connecting the center of the SVG element and the position of the cursor.

```code
 ------•
|     /
|    /
|   /
|  /
| /
|/
```

```js
let angle = (Math.atan(x / y) * 180) / Math.PI;
```

`* 180 / Math.PI` since the obtained value is in radians, and the `transform` property requires degrees instead.

The only issue is that `d3.mouse(svg)` potentially returns a negative value, for both dimensions. I made due by adjusting the values on a need to have basis. This meant computing the angle with absolute values, and then adding/removing according to the three different scenarios past the default one.

### dataset

The coordinates of the cursor are needed in two instances: when the cursor hovers on the SVG element, when the click event is registered. To avoid computing the values again, however, I decided to use `data-*` attributes instead. Here's the gist:

- retrieve the coordinates and angle in the `mousemove` event

- assign the values to data attributes: `data-x`, `data-y`, `data-color`

- following the `click` event, read the attributes from the `dataset` object. Handily enough, this returns a DOM String with the assigned data attributes. Using object destructuring allows to then pick up the distinct values.

```js
const { x, y, color } = this.dataset;
```

Just remember to use a full blown `function`, and not an arrow function. This last one doesn't bind `this` so that the reference would be to the window object.

### Forces

I've implemented the forces mentioned in yesterday's notes, but also experimented with `forceX` and `forceY`. This to literally push the circle elements toward the center of the SVG element.

| Force           | Briefly                                 |
| --------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| forceCenter()   | Center of gravity                       |
| forceX()        | Push horizontally                       |
| forceY()        | Push vertically                         |
| forceManyBody() | Have bodies repulse (-), or attract (+) |
| forceCollide()  | Avoid collision                         |

Out of convenience, these are set only as new data points are added. I thought it unnecessary to repeat their logic in the moment the simulation plots a single element.
