# Table of Contents

- [Leads](#Leads)

- [borntofrappe](#borntofrappe)

  - [Sections and pages](#Sections-and-pages)

  - [learning-d3](#learning-d3)

## Leads

A rather productive break lead me to two new routes:

- write a blog post about HTML attributes and CSS selectors. This to examine not only presentational attributes, but deprecated ones. It comes on the heels, on the realization that the `align` attribute for table elements is deprecated

- create a page to display the icons, and even allow to copy the syntax/download the assets. This similarly to google icons. Basically, open source the SVG syntax you created for the website

Past these new leads, a few updates on the design of borntofrappe.

## borntofrappe

The blog and blog post pages are introduced by a header, where the background and color properties are effectively flipped with respect to the rest of the document.

I've considered repeating this pattern for the landing page, and specifically the hero section. This mean that I can make due with the SVG illustration setting up the anchor links only. It's no longer necessary to plot the particles, nor the mask to avoid overlap between said particles and the surrounding circles. The dots are replaced by the dotted pattern included through the `background-image` property. After working a while on the section, I think I conjured up a reasonable design.

### Sections and pages

In trying to tie everything together, I included additional markup in the form of the navigation and footer component, at the beginning of the hero section and end of the about section respectively. I then hid this markup using CSS and a class on the body element.

```css
body.no-nav nav {
  display: none;
}e;
}
```

And toggled this class with a bit of JavaScript, following the click event on the window's object.

```js
window.addEventListener("click", () => {
  document.body.classList.toggle("no-nav");
});
```

Same for the footer, in the about section. This works, but it's unnecessary convoluted. As the heading suggests, I therefore created a **pages** folder, in which the components, sections and makeshift content try to convey how the final page is supposed to look like.

The challenge is now to replicate the layout using nunjucks.

### learning-d3

This is a bit of a cop-out, but I've only a small update for the specific repository. I decided to create a box plot, but I'm only at the planning stages. The idea is to create the rectangular shape starting from a random data set. This allows to practice with the scales, as mentioned in a previous update, but also the useful methods provided by `d3-array` in the [statistics section](https://github.com/d3/d3-array#statistics).

Hopefully, I'll have more to say in the upcoming update.
