# Table of Contents

- [borntofrappe](#borntofrappe)

  - [Getting started](#Getting-started)

  - [Blog](#Blog)

  - [Icons](#Icons)

  - [Link](#Link)

- [learning-svg](#learning-svg)

## borntofrappe

I've continued working on borntofrappe, but progress has been slower than expected. I've designed a few sections on pen and paper however, and here I'd like to detail the fruit of that manual labour.

### Getting started

This section is meant to introduce the contents of the page. It describes a telescope, pointing to a series of icons (html, css, js). Next to this SVG illustration, a string of text explains how the website is still in its infancy, but hopefully has something of value still.

### Blog

With this section, the page redirects directly toward the blog route. The navigation at the top achieves something similar, but the idea is to give an explicit reason, an explicit call to actual while providing more context on the destination.

### Icons

Here the page redirects toward a page describing the different icons designed for the website. It could be just a page mapping the `svg` files from the `icons.js` object, but at a later stage, I'd like to add the possibility to copy and or download the asset. Much similarly to google icons.

### Link

The different section, which I actually believe would be better wrapped in `<article>` elements, can benefit from the design of the link component I created a while back in the **playground** repository. Continuing the migration of only the demos I can immediately apply in the website, I've recreated the effect in the **Components** folder.

## learning-svg

The repo is actually labeled "learn SVG by building a solar system", and it was created a while back to introduce SVG syntax to campers @freecodecamp. I'm sad to report I left the project on the sidelines, but revisiting the organization of the repository, I think I found a new push to finally create something of value. I've a series of challenges already lined up, and it would be a proverbial pity not to continue with the effort.
