# Table of Contents

- [borntofrappe](#borntofrappe)

  - [global.css](#global.css)

  - [Pseudo colon(s)](#Pseudo-colon(s))

  - [SVG](#SVG)

- [Font size](#Font-size)

## borntofrappe

Researching the class of `.screen-reader-only`, which could actually be re-labeled `.visually-hidden`, I came upon a couple of useful resources. Most importantly, these resources are immediately applicable to the design of borntofrappe.

### global.css

Inspired by [this stylesheet](https://github.com/hankchizljaw/modern-css-reset/blob/master/src/reset.css) and [this article](https://hankchizljaw.com/wrote/a-modern-css-reset/), I've decided to review the global stylesheet with the following

- move the `margin: 0` and `padding: 0` to the elements which actually have a default value.

  This means not relying on the global selector for margin and padding.

  ```css
  * {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
  }
  ```

  It might make for a miniscule difference, but I feel is more explicit

  ```css
  body.
  h1,
  h2,
  /* ... */ {
    margin: 0;
    padding: 0;
  }
  ```

- for the global selector, specify `box-sizing: border-box` still, but using the pseudo elements `::before` and `::after` as well.

  ```css
  *,
  *::before,
  *::before {
    box-sizing border-box;
  }
  ```

- for SVG elements, add `display: block`.

  The reset actually specifies the value for `img` elements, but it makes life much easier for vector graphics as well.

The rest relates more to single property-value pairs. Refer to the MDN docs I add for more information on the possible values.

- `text-rendering: optimizeSpeed;` on the body.

  The default of `auto` delegates the decision to the rendering engine, but `optimizeSpeed` seems a more sensible choice. In the moment you don't care about ligatures, like in the specific website, the choice seems even more fitting.[See the docs for more](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-rendering).

- `text-decoration-skip-ink: auto;` on anchor link elements.

  In this manner the underline skips the ascenders and descenders. More a stylistic choice, but one I prefer to adopt. Again refer to [the docs for more](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/text-decoration-skip-ink).

  Previously I removed the decoration altogether, but this was a mistake. A mistake born out of the fact that the components use anchor link elements only for the navigation, and these do not need the default underline.

  ```diff
  - a
  + nav a
  {
    text-decoration: none;
  }
  ```

### Pseudo colon(s)

It is a trivial change, but I decided to finally mature from the lazy approach of using a single colon for pseudo selectors and elements alike.

Two colons for pseudo elements, one for selectors

```css
a:hover {
}
a::before {
}
```

### SVG

The icons are modified as follows

- a default size of `1em` instead of `40` or any other arbitrary value. This is a more robust choice for the specific website, where vector graphics are used mostly as icons and accompany text elements.

- `aria-hidden: true` and `aria-focusable: false`. Again, a sensible default considering the use case of the designed graphics. You'll need to change the values less often that you'll end up using.

I've also tried to be more consistent when it comes to the attributes and their order (fill, then stroke, and stroke connected attributes).

## Font size

I don't have a scale system, yet, but the concept of fluid typography is tantalizing. The idea is to change the size of the text in a range, and depending on the viewport width. It uses a `calc` value, and a seemingly complex formula:

```css
.text {
  font-size: calc(16px + (24 - 16) * (100vw - 400px) / (800 - 400));
}
```

Whereby:

- 16 refers to the minimum font size
- 24 the maximum font size
- 400 the minimum screen size
- 800 the maximum screen size

Therefore, below 400px you have a font `16px` tall, above 800px you have a `24px` size, and in between a fluid measure.

[CSS Tricks has more on the subject](https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/fluid-typography/).

`calc` might not be supported, and just to be safe add a fallback value.

```css
.text {
  font-size: 20px;
  font-size: calc(16px + (24 - 16) * (100vw - 400px) / (800 - 400));
}
```

It might be helpful to use this technique for paragraph elements, and perhaps even headings. The individual blog posts are heavier on text and should be the point of reference in the moment you implement the value.
