# Table of Contents

- [Force Simulation](#Force-Simulation)

  - [Idea](#Idea)

  - [Starting Point](#Starting-Point)

  - [Visualization](#Visualization)

  - [Controls v2](#Controls-v2)

  - [Icons](#Icons)

- [Content Shift](#Content-Shift)

- [Simulation V2](#Simulation-V2)

## Force Simulation

Rectifying yesterday's blunder, a few actually useful notes on the d3 project exploring the d3-force module. To avoid wasting time in VsCode, I sketched out the project on pen and paper. Starting from the central idea, and sprinkling a few details, here the gist of what the demo is supposed to achieve.

### Idea

Inspired by [this particular slide](https://www.lemonde.fr/les-decodeurs/visuel/2020/04/02/coronavirus-a-quoi-sert-le-confinement_6035266_4355770.html#slide=31) from a data visualization [@lemondefr](https://www.lemonde.fr/), the goal is to show a network structure made entirely of circle elements. The idea is to then style more and more circle elements in the same way. Start with the circle at the center of the graph, spread the style to connecting circles, repeat going outwards. This combines two concepts actually: a network graph and a hierarchical structure. If you think about a tree structure, starting with a `root` node and continuing with `children` nodes, the only difference is that the elements are laid in a circular pattern.

### Starting Point

In terms of markup, here's a first version, subject to change as I figure something better.

```pug
svg
.controls
  button.play (button.pause)
```

### Visualization

By default, show a network graph entirely made of circle elements. Using a force function, make sure to squish the shapes together, but avoid any overlap still.

In terms of style, set the `fill` to `none` and specify the `stroke` only. The idea of the project was to color the shapes in increments, but relying only on color is not an accessible solution. Using color _and_ filling the circles at the same time allows to highlight the change in a more reliable manner.

Add a `fill` and update the color for the first circle.

As the visualization progresses, consider the children nodes of circle elements that are already colored, and repeat the fill+color update.

### Controls v2

I thought of refining the controls to allow for a more varied interaction. An interaction which allows to move forwards/backwards and even reset the visualization.

```pug
svg
.controls
  button.previous
  button.reset
  button.play (button.pause)
  button.next
```

However, consider this addition after you've completed the core visualization.

The cited article actually uses the left and right arrow key to update the visualization. Again, consider this step for a later update.

This is actually a good idea of what the project is meant to create, and I might copy-paste the instruction in the dedicated repository.

> a bit of planning a long way goes

### Icons

Ultimately, I created a few icons for the buttons in the `.controls` container. I take a moment to note this because I realized something potentially worth remembering. For the `.previous` and `.next` buttons, I thought of using the same asset, describing an arrow pointing rightwards: `→`

In the CSS, I then thought of using the `transform` property to either rotate or scale with a negative value one of the two copies.

```css
.previous {
  /* transform: scale(-1, 1); */
  transform: rotate(180deg);
}
```

This works, but I think is fundamentally wrong. Not just because CSS might fail and in that situation the icons point in the same direction, but because the change in direction is not a matter of style, but meaning. The fix is rather innocent: update the SVG syntax literally applying the transformation in the HTML.

```html
<!-- <svg transform="scale(-1 1)"></svg> -->
<svg transform="rotate(180)"></svg>
```

You could even add the CSS inline

```html
<svg style="transform: rotate(180deg)"></svg>
```

This would fix the if-CSS-fails, but disregards the point I tried to make. It is an incredibly trivial point, but I think there's something more to it. Perhaps worth the inner monologue that was this section.

> html: structure
>
> css: style

## Content Shift

I noticed the overlap between this entry and the notes I already meant to create for the **learning-d3** repository, so I won't continue in describing how I created the `data` array or the simulation itself. Suffice to say, I've learned a lot about `d3-force`. I still need to explore the module further, but the demo has been teaching already.

I consider these notes to be still valuable, so I won't delete the different sections. Considering the **icons** paragraph actually, I might have stumbled on a new article exploring the `transform` attribute and property.

Eventually, I even modified the data visualization to focus on the previous/next action only. I considered the other features to distract from the goal of the demo, which works as an introduction to the `d3.force` module.

## Simulation V2

With the visualization complete, I actually want to take a moment and jot a note or two on how to make the simulation dynamic. It might be helpful in the moment I create another visualization with the module.

When setting up the simulation, specify different forces with the `.force` function. This takes two arguments:

- a string for the name of the force. It might be helpful to identify the different forces, but currently, I think it's only a way to better describ and later understand the purpose of the force

- a function which modifies the simulation, the speed and ultimately position of the data points

Say you want to center the simulation at a particular coordinate.

```js
d3.simulation(data).force("center", d3.forceCenter(0, 0));
```

Say you want to add a source of gravity.

```js
d3.simulation(data).force("charge", d3.forceManyBody().strength(1));
```

With a positive strength pushing the points apart, a negative value pulling them together.

Say you want to prevent overlap between the shapes.

```js
d3.simulation(data).force("collision", d3.forceCollide().radius(10));
```

Radius providing the distance the data points need to maintain.

All these forces are provided by the `d3-force` module, and a thorough read [of the docs](https://github.com/d3/d3-force#forces) is more than warranted. However, on their own, they do not make the visualization dynamic. Just like a video game needs an animation loop, you need to call the function which plots/updates the data repeatedly. This is where an event listener is necessary.

```js
d3.simulation(data).on("tick", () => plotData(data));
```

The `tick` event is tailored for the simulation, as is fired until the simulation reaches an equilibrium. In this instance I call the function responsible for the visualization, which then positions the elements are needed.

```js
update.attr("cx", (d) => d.x).attr("cy", (d) => d.y);
```

There's plenty more to discover, but this should be enough to speed up the development of the next visualization using `d3-force`.
