# Table of Contents

- [learning-d3](#learning-d3)

- [borntofrappe](#borntofrappe)

  - [data](#data)

  - [includes](#includes)

  - [blog](#blog)

  - [safe](#safe)

## learning-d3

I've decided to finally tackle one of the modules of the D3 library that has always evaded me: `d3-force`. It is surprisingly easy to set up a series of shapes in a network-like structure, with the appropriate data that is.

I've built an array of nodes connected to each other using the logic developed for a previous data visualization. I might explain the logic at a later stage, but suffice to say that `data` is made to be an array of objects. Objects which specify an `id` and `parentId` attribute as to connect the various data points.

Back to the simulation. With an array of nodes, drawing a series of circles radiating from the center requires to just use the `d3.forceSimulation` method.

```js
d3.forceSimulation(data);
```

This one adds a series of properties to each node, among which `x` and `y` to describe the data points' coordinates.

Adding the circles is then a matter of binding the data with the familiar `data` and `enter` methods.

```js
svg
  .selectAll("circle")
  .data(data)
  .enter()
  .append("circle")
  .attr("cx", (d) => d.x)
  .attr("cy", (d) => d.y)
  .attr("r", 4);
```

This is utterly simplistic, but allows to display the circles already. For a more complex visualization, it is necessary to delve in the `force` functions applied to the simulation.

## borntofrappe

I need to plan the website away from VsCode, preferably on pen and paper, but here a few modifications I made to the existing structure.

### data

In the data folder I include an object describing the possible icons I intend to use in the website.

```js
module.exports = {
  rocket: `<svg></svg>`,
  sparkles: `<svg></svg>`,
  blog: `<svg></svg>`,
};
```

These are drawn with SVG syntax and within VsCode. The object is ultimately created with a node script on the basis of the `.svg` files found in an `icons` folder. I wrote the script before I set up the website, and I'm positive there is a way to incorporate its logic in the build process, but to get started, I'm more than satisfied with having the object as given.

### includes

Liquid seems more than a valid choice, but I decided to change the templating engine to be nunjucks. Just a matter of preference.

In the includes folder, I renamed the `layout` file to `blog-post`, as the markup is ultimately meant for the articles in the **blog** folder.

The content is included in a `<main>` element, and it is wrapped in the following structure:

```njk
<nav></nav>
<header></header>
  <main>
    {{content}}
  </main>
<footer></footer>
```

More on the other elements structure at a later date.

### blog

In `blog.json` I modified the reference to the layout file. so to pick up `blog-post.njk`, and I added an additional field to describe the `blog` tag.

```json
{
  "layout": "blog-post.njk",
  "tags": "blog"
}
```

Since the markdown files all share the same tag, I thought it best to avoid the repetition and add the value in the shared location.

For each individual article, I've modified the front matter to specify a `date` and `brief`. This last one should provide a short summary on the blog post, and it might be helpful when creating the grid of articles in the home page.

### safe

Switching to `njk` as a templating engine caused a small quirk: the content in the `<main>` element includes HTML elements as well.

```html
<p>This article...</p>
```

To remove the tags I was reminded of a particular filter

```njk
{{ content | safe }}
```

It works, but I need to research the docs on the matter.
