# Table of Contents

- [borntofrappe](#borntofrappe)

  - [Breadcrumb navigation](#Breadcrumb-navigation)

  - [About section](#About-section)

  - [Font stack](#Font-stack)

- [playground](#playground)

  - [SVGAnimatedString](#SVGAnimatedString)

## borntofrappe

Before adding new content, I decided to revisit website to tweak the design of the landing page.

### Breadcrumb navigation

Problem: anchor link elements and their focus state.

While the default property-value pairs described in the global stylesheet provide a sensible default, they don't match with the design of the hero section, nor the footer component.

Solution: repeat the property-value pairs of `:focus` pseudo selector for the footer.

### About section

Problem: the illustration creates too much white space.

Solution: show only half the illustration, pushing the `<svg>` element behind the `<footer>` component which follows.

The element is not actually pushed below, since relying on a negative margin creates issues.

```css
section svg {
  margin-bottom: -50%;
}
```

It seems to work on chrome, but not on firefox, nor edge. In these browsers, the illustration is shown in full, and protruding below the footer.

To achieve the desired effect, I modified the `viewBox` attribute of the `<svg>` element.

```diff
-<svg viewBox="-50 -50 100 100"></svg>
+<svg viewBox="-50 -50 100 50"></svg>
```

In this manner the illustration is effectively cropped from the get-go:

- the element is shown as a rectangle, not a square

- only the top half of the illustration is made visible

As the group rotates, if it does rotate, the rest of the icons are made visible.

A couple of additional tweaks are necessary to finalize the illusion:

- update the presentational attributes to preserve the aspect ratio

  ```diff
  -<svg width="200" height="200"></svg>
  +<svg width="200" height="100"></svg>
  ```

- map the icons counter-clockwise

  ```diff
  -<g transform="rotate(deg) translate(px) rotate(deg * -1)"></g>
  +<g transform="rotate(deg * -1) translate(px) rotate(deg)"></g>
  ```

  This because the animation occurs clockwise, and I wanted to preserve the logical order described in the paragraph: world, editor, running, tea and gaming.

- remove the margin at the bottom of the section

  ```css
  section {
    margin-bottom: 0px;
  }
  ```

### Font stack

I've grown wary of the `serif` typeface I've picked for the body, so I decided to revert back to a `sans-serif` variant, and specifically `Ubuntu`. I think the font, its x-height and most prominently curvatures are a good fit with the overall website, its theme and also `Maven Pro` used for headings/navigation/footer.

## playground

Reviewing the icons I've designed in for borntofrappe, I've started migrating the contents of the **playground** repo on a need-to-have basis. I feel the repo still holds a purpose, to explore a topic, a concept before it grows and develops into something more useful/teaching.

### SVGAnimatedString

This is actually connected to the about section in the landing page. I've decided to use the intersection observer API on the `<svg>` element instead of the parent section, but stumbled when it came to assigning a class on the element itself. This is because the following doesn't work:

```js
document.querySelector("svg").className = "observed";
```

It doesn't work because `className` on an SVG element returns an SVGAnimatedString object. It's actually an interesting twist, and I decided to create a demo on the subject. If you need a solution, here a few possible routes:

- `className.baseVal`:

  ```js
  document.querySelector("svg").className.baseVal = "observed";
  ```

- `setAttribute()`

  ```js
  document.querySelector("svg").setAttribute("class", "observed");
  ```

- `classList.add`

  ```js
  document.querySelector("svg").classList.add("observed");
  ```

See the dedicated demo for more information.
